-: Welcome back,
in this lecture we are going to understand about
Horizontal Pod Autoscaler.
So let's see what is Horizontal Pod Autoscaler, right?
So in a very simple note, horizontal scaling means
increasing and decreasing the number of replicas,
which is nothing but pods in our Kubernetes deployment.
So HPA automatically scales
the number of pods in a deployment
or a replication controller or a replica set
or a StatefulSet,
based on that resources CPU utilization.
Not only CPU utilization,
you can even configure any type of other metrics
or custom metrics or whatever you want to configure.
So as part of our demo
we are primarily going to focus on CPU utilization.
So this can help our applications scale out
to meet increase the demand or scale in
when resources are not needed.
So thus freeing up our worker notes for other applications.
So when we set a target CPU utilization percentage,
the HPA scales our applications in or out
to try to meet the target CPU utilization percentage.
So HPA needs Kubernetes metrics server to verify
CPU metrics server for.
So we do not need, we do not need to deploy
or install the HPA on our cluster
to begin scaling our applications.
It's out of the box available
as a default Kubernete standard API resource.
So moving on, how this HPA works.
So let's see that, now.
In a Kubernetes cluster, right,
you have deployed a application.
So it might be of type deployment or replica set
or replication controller or StatefulSet.
So it is going to span the pods
or it is going to create the equal end pods
where it is going to deploy our application container.
So now what happens is, we are also going to deploy
a default Kubernetes metrics server available for us.
So these pod metrics information
is going to be sent to our respective metrics server.
So when we enable the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
for our respective application,
so what happens is like,
it is going to query for metrics
and once it gets the metrics,
it is going to calculate the number of replicas,
this Horizontal Pod AutoScaler need to increase or decrease.
So then it will scale the app to desire replicas.
So there will be a kubectl scale option,
internally it is going to use the scale operation
to scale either scale in or scale out our number of pods.
So once it's scaled, so it is going to either increase
or decrease the number of pods
in our respective application.
So even whatever the new pods, whatever it gets created
those related metrics also will be sent over
respective metrics server.
So the thing here is, this whole thing,
whatever happens here, this Horizontal Pod Autoscaling,
collecting the metrics, calculating the replies
and then if required
it is going to trigger the scaling request.
So all this happens is called a control loop
and this control loop is executed every 15 seconds.
So next, how is HPA configure in our Kubernetes cluster?
So that's another important thing which we need to know.
So HPA requires scaling metric.
So example, you can take our scaling metric
as CPU utilization and target value.
So which is nothing, but in our, in your metric,
what should be your target value when that reaches,
then it can do a scaling in or out,
whatever is required based on that.
So if it reaches 50% then scale out more,
much like more number of pods need to be added.
So target value is CPU 50%
and minimum replicas in my application can be two, right
and maximum replicas can be 10.
So whenever it triggers the scale out request
it can go up to 10 replicas
and whenever it is in the cooling period
and then it want to cool down
it can come back to two replicas
and then leave the application with two replicas.
In our example, we are starting with minimum as one replica
and then we'll go till 10 replicas
and the command looks this way.
Kubectl Autoscale deployment, demo deployment
and it's a means like deployment name and the CPU percentage
which is nothing but the scaling metric is CPU percent
and the target value is 50
and mini is minimum replicas and max is maximum replicas.
So this is about the HPA configuration,
how we need to enable in our Kubernetes cluster
for a specific application,
which is of kind deployment or replica set
or StatefulSet, whatever it may be.
So in our next lecture
we are going to work on the answer.
So I'll see you in the next lecture,
until then, bye bye.
Thank you.